I sat with a man named Kenny Johnson
in front of a waterfall discussing Zen philosophies.
Kenny had found peace while serving
what was to be a 40-year prison sentence
after a life of crime.
It came while in meditation with Gongaji
who was working for a non-profit organization
to bring compassion to the life of those incarcerated.
(low beat)
You sit here today the picture of peace.
(laughs) However your youth brought something
entirely different by way of your experience.
Let's talk a little bit about your background first.
And how you entered this world,
that you later had to emerge from.
Okay.
I guess the earliest memory I can have
of my childhood was coming from Arkansas.
Let me back up, what happened was,
when I was a little boy, I loved candy, you know.
And there were these two girls, Peaches and Pumkin
and we always went to school together, you know.
And so I said I want to impress the girls you know
look at this guy you know and so,
grandma had a little coinpurse
that I knew where it was.
And I would sneak under her pillow
and get some silver.
I didn't know the value of money.
And I would go to the store and I would buy some candy,
and I would give it to them, and we would
catch the bus to school.
To Peaches and Punkin?
Yeah to Peaches and Pumkin and I loved that.
(laughs) That's so cute.
So one day...
there was no change so I took a green bill.
Gave it to the storekeeper,
and he gave me back all this money, I said (gasps)
I was caught red-handed.
Cause I was like, "Uuh, I don't know what to with all that."
I said, "Give it to her."
So it was a 10 dollar bill, something like that.
So he gave all the money to Peaches,
and she told grandma.
And all of a sudden grandma became real cool toward me.
And then next thing I know she says, Kennydale...
Whenever I hear Kennydale I'm in trouble.
(laughter)
You heard it a lot.
Yeah, right.
And so she said I'm sending you to your mother, you know.
Just out of the blue, surprised and shocked.
And I love my grandmother so I was like,
"Oh I don't want to go." But I was torn from her
and sent to Kansas City, Missouri on a bus by myself.
With a little name tag.
My mother picked me up, and I was led to
Kansas City, Missouri.
And that's when everything started happening.
You were I assume.
Arkansas, I was Star City, Arkansas.
You were missing your grandmother
and wondering why.
Why.
Did you have any feeling or understanding yet
about why this had happened?
Why she was upset with you?
No, no, my grandmother, my mother
you know they didn't talk to us kids.
Okay.
So they did things without us knowing
why they were doing them, and then explain it to us.
Okay.
So this is my first time of wanting to be understood
or wanting some explanation.
But she didn't talk to me.
You know, I did like I said earlier.
Not being seen, just okay I'm gonna take this kids to you.
I get to Kansas City, and my other siblings,
my sister, and my brother Memio,
and my step-father, this guy who I don't even know,
cause I never knew my father.
And I was confused.
The city, cars, all these people,
so what I did, I discovered AMP Supermarket.
And they had this long aisle of candy.
(Regina laughs)
I said, "Oh, I'm gonna have it."
And I had a little old green army coat
with a little fur collar and I was fill my pockets up,
and walk out the store, and its like
I was eating candy, but I said, "I'm in heaven.
(laughs)
Now I think at this point
almost everybody can relate to that as a child.
Yeah (laughs)
The only time I ever stole something was
at the five and dime and it was a piece of candy.
Yeah. (laughs)
And then one day I got caught, you know,
They took me to the back, emptied my pockets out,
and said, "Don't come back here anymore."
And so I didn't for a while.
But by that time, I realized I was looking for
a crowd to hang out with.
And the crowd I was looking for was
guys that felt like me, acted like me.
Because my mother and my step-father,
they just didn't talk to us, they beat us and chastise us,
but they wouldn't sit down and
just have a conversation with you.
Like you and I are having.
And to explain life to us, to explain what they're doing,
explain where we join.
I never got that, so I was just like invincible in a sense.
But these young guys who are like myself,
they were thieves or hoodlums.
These guys they brought me in to their world.
And so I said, "Great." So we would go steal fireworks
or steal cupcakes off the Frito Lay truck.
The Best Pop trucks, we would steal boxes,
the guy would go to deliver the pop to the store,
we were waiting, watching in the bushes,
and go in there and just (growls) grab the pop,
run off to the park, drink pop all day long.
So it was that type of crowd I started hanging out with.
And I realized it was exciting, it was fun.
You're sweet tooth was being satisfied.
My sweet tooth was being satisfied,
and I had a camaraderie with other kids my age.
And so that's how I started to gravitate towards
that type of world or
group of kids that saw me.
That the way I can say that.
So you belong to something.
I belong to something, and most kids
want to belong to something, if they don't
if the grownups don't try to bring him in.
Then to the initiation into whatever,
then they have to go get initiated by somebody.
And so I got initiated by the wrong crowd.
Which in reality was the right crowd.
And I was there for about 30 years in that type of crowd.
That type of..
And what kind of things did
stealing pop and candy start progressing into,
and how are you feeling through the progression,
so it's two questions in one as you take this...
Well I regressed into...
stealing cars, joyriding, you know.
So now we're I'm moving up to, we get a car
we hot wire it, we put the wires out,
put some aluminium foil around it,
and start the car, let's drive down the street,
90 miles an hour, just joyride it.
And that led to a juvenile home.
And I would go to the department stores
and steal shirts and jackets, and things like that.
Because we were so poor, I couldn't afford to buy anything,
so I'd ask my momma, "Can you get me this?"
Can you get me some skates, can you buy me,
a new leather coat, but she couldn't do any of those things.
So I had to find some way to get things
that all my peers had.
And so I said, lets go to the department store
and steal t-shirts.
Back then, it was a bad line shirt.
Yeah.
And I just loved those shirts,
I would get some popcorn, empty the popcorn out,
eat it up, and then fill it up with badline shirts
(laughs)
Oh you were bad.
I put some popcorn on top I got one back. (laughs)
I hope you didn't have it buttered.
No (laughs)
and how did I feel, I felt pretty good.
There was no guilt until my mother would catch me
then she would you know, beat me of course,
and those beating were pretty severe.
Because she was trying to beat the devil out of me.
Right.
Literally.
Yeah.
And you know, through the word of Jesus,
through the word of the book, take us to church,
Sunday, Wednesdays, and Saturdays
and have us participate in all the church activities.
Trying to get me into the word,
and doing little plays.
So that's how I was able to start having
some type of
consciousness about guilt,
through the church.
Mmhhmm.
And yet I was so excited with the guys
I was hanging out, it would wear off so quick
after I get out of church, matter of fact,
while I'm in church, I would go down
during the intermission, before the preacher
would come with the long sermon,
I would run down to the doughnut shop
and steal doughnuts and pop.
(laughs)
Wow you're sweet tooth was getting you
in some trouble.
It was all kinds of, so the sweet tooth
really got me into a lot of trouble, but
I was able to satisfy it (laughs)
Yeah you were able to satisfy it,
you had your own needs.
I had my own needs to satisfy them.
So you go into juvenile hall,
Yes.
Now does this experience start changing anything,
or is this more of a reinforcement for you?
Once I went to juvenile hall, and was able to come out,
with my manhood intact, I said,
"Ah" I could go to jail
subconsciously I knew I could go to jail and survive.
Once I knew that, once anybody know
that they can go to hell and come back,
ah okay then, I can keep doing,
so it only reinforced my ability to steal.
Because I wasn't abused or beat up,
I wasn't treated how a lot of guys were treated
so I survived it so I realized its not a big deal,
there was no fear anymore.
So you had no fear of jail?
Right
Now let me ask you during this
whole people of time, how old were you by this time.
uh 15 or 14.
15.
Mhmm.
Had it occurred to you at any point
up to that time, we'll there's a job a I could get
or something.
Yep.
Beautiful, it's great, you're good you know that.
Thank you
(laughs)
What happened was when I was 15,
I got out of juvenile hall, in the juvenile home for a year,
and I went back home.
So my mother had talked to a local contractor and firemen,
by the name of Conrad Robinson.
And Conrad said, "I'll take your son into my home
"and for the summer I'm gonna teach him,
"I'm gonna give him a skill, a trade."
Learn how to hammer nails, paint,
lay tile, and all that type of thing.
And so, he said, "Kenny, all summer you'll live in my house,
"babysit the kids, and in return at the end of summer,
"I'll give you a check and you can buy your school clothing,
"because you want to look good for the girls."
Right of course.
And so, I said, "Great."
and so all summer I was painting, I was doing everything.
And then it's time to get paid,
he sat me down at his desk and he's started...
three thousand dollar this and you know I'm hearing
all these big figures, I'm like whoo, whoo.
And he did some calculations and all that stuff
on the calculator, then he wrote a check out.
And he handed it to me.
When he handed me the check,
I was so ignorant at that time,
I didn't know what that meant,
was it $3200, $320, I didn't really know,
but I said "thank you Conrad."
As I was going home I said, is this $32, you know.
No.
I say, "Is this $32.00?
As he was talking he was saying,
" Well you stayed at our place, I bought you food,"
See I know but that wasn't the deal.
Well no.
That was not the deal.
My innocent mind saying "Okay I'm gonna work for him"
"I'm gonna get this amount, case closed,"
Again I was not talked to, I was not explained the details,
I was not given enough information
to make a conscious decision.
And so, once I took the check home
and showed it to my mother,
and I say, "How much is that?"
And she said, "That's 32 dollars."
And I said, "This isn't right mom, he said this is this,
"let's go talk to him, let's go, I'm looking for her
" to back me up.
And she says, "Son, he knows what's best."
So we're just gonna take this money, do what we can with it.
Whoa.
And that was such a blow because
Wow
I wanted me mama to back me up,
just to go down and say, explain this to us.
And she didn't do it, out of fear or ignorance
I don't know.
Not wanting to stir up trouble.
Right don't make nobody mad.
Yeah.
So, I had a friend I met in juvenile hall
who was sweet on my sister, his name was Pete.
And I called Pete, and said never in the star high school
I need some help making some money.
And I knew Pete was a little hustler.
So he said, I'll come over in a couple days.
" and we'll do something together."
Sure enough, he came over, I ditched school,
moved with him up to the hardware store,
we walk around the block
looking for something to steal.
He says, "Here we'll go to the hardware store."
At nine o'clock in the morning,
he says I want you to take her over in the corner somewhere
talk to her for about 10 minutes, keep her distracted
her back to the cash register, and I'm gonna go in there
and get the money and come out, once you see me leave
then come on out.
And so I did that, and I saw him come in
out of the corner of my eye.
And I saw him come back out with his hat full of something.
And I looked over at him and she turned around
following my eyes, as he was going out the door.
She's chasing him, and I'm chasing her trying
to get out the store.
And we all three running down the streets.
Me and him, we run across the street,
run down through these bushes and stuff,
so she couldn't follow us, so we got away.
I went home to my house, we divied up the money.
I think it was about $150, something like that.
So I said wow, it wasn't the money,
It was the idea, now I know how to make cash money.
RIght.
That was it.
Because working all summer babysitting
and building wasn't a way to make money in your mind.
And you couldn't trust adults, but you could trust thieves
the hustlers and con men, the players.
To come through with what they said
Come through with what they said they gonna do.
So that was is, I said I'm trusting these guys here.
I'm not trusting the church, I'm not trusting you know
businessmen, that's out..
The die is cast as they say.
Yes.
And I am not leaving these guys for no amount of money.
Cause so far that's the only thing that really,
That's the only thing that's worth it.
Come through for you.
Mhhmm.
So as you went on and got into more adult crimes,
you went to, how many times did you end up in prison?
I have seven felony convictions, so say about
six or seven times I did time.
And what kind of crimes were you committing,
by the time you were really reaching your peak.
Oh I was strictly a money dog, I was about money.
Yea.
So I didn't steal jewels, I mean we stole jewlery
we stole other merchandise,
but mainly it was cash and checks,
robbing banks
, con games, pimping,
drug selling, whatever
Anything that brought some revenue in.
that's what I did, yeah.
Mmhmm, so seven times in prison,
and what kind you went to, I assume city, county?
I was city jail, county jail, state prison,
and federal prison.
San Quentin or,
No I never did time in California.
I did my time in the midwest.
Okay.
In the Missouri area.
So you were now,
were you becoming emboldened
through this process
Yes.
Or were you, yeah. Can you
talk to us about that.
Okay what happens is when you go to jail,
and you are there for a year or two years.
You gotta figure out how to do your time.
So most of the guys, they're in jail,
a guy that you know from the streets,
so you walk around the yard or
sit around a cafeteria or whatever.
Planning what you're gonna do when you get out.
And so we were planning our next hustle,
our next crime.
So it was like a school for thieves, for criminals
to better their cons, their hustles,
because they'res all type of people,
all types of cons, so you try to figure out
what feels good to you, what can keep you
on the streets the longest,
try to learn as much as you can about their crimes.
So going to prison is just
one of the ordinary risks that you're
out on the streets for a while,
you go back to prison for a while.
RIght.
You're back on the street again.
Back on the street again.
And that becomes your rhythm.
How much crime is committed actually
comes as a result of networking in prison,
is that fairly common, I assume that's quite common.
Yes, yes. I mean people
there are gangs that run operations from prison.
They do business from prison, you know.
Through the courier guys getting out,
through visiting, through phone,
through mail, they're able to keep the operation going.
Until they get out.
until they get out.
They're still making some money.
Right they still make some money,
and money is being sent in to them.
You know so they're still running the operation
from prison, they're getting drugs smuggled in
and things of that nature.
So you're by this time,
I don't know, you're well well into you're adult years.
Yes, yes 26,25.
And this is becoming your rhythm of life,
do some hustles, go to jail, do some hustles, go to prison.
Right, right.
Go to federal prison.
Right.
At any point did you say,
You know this is crazy, I really don't
want to do this anymore?
It happened
when I got sentenced by the federal government
to 40 years in prison for writing bad checks.
That was like a shock, a slap.
Like this rhythm is going to be broken,
I'm not out in a couple of years.
Right, and I had to do 10 years flat
before I could see a parole board.
I'm 32 years old, and so when the judge sentences me,
I had a check cashing ring, and for two years
I was just chasing checks every day.
I mean I had a money making machine.
You know I had people who, check cashers and everything.
So I was moving towards organized crime.
Yes.
Rhythm.
And i got busted by the federal government,
and i was sentence to 40 years,
and I was transferred from the country jail to Chicago.
To the Illinois Federal detention center,
and that's where I had my first episode
where something got the shift.
And i was about ready to commit suicide.
I said I'll teach them a lesson.
I'll commit suicide, they'll be sad,
they'll be angry, that's the way
I think that's what most people who've committed suicide
think they'll get back at somebody by taking themselves
out of the game.
That's how i was thinking.
And so as I'm saving these pills,
these sleeping pills, that I got for depression and anxiety.
I can't sleep for from the psychiatrist or psychologist.
whoever that administers medication.
Mhhmm.
That's who I got them from. (laughs)
Right.
You got your stash of pills.
I got my stash of pills.
And so one day, there's this black guard,
he came by, he knocked on my door,
he says can I come in, I say sure.
he says, young man, that light inside of you won't die.
You can't put it out.
I said what you talking about man?
I'm playing dumb, or laming, like
I don't know what you're talking about.
Mhhmm.
And he said, I know what you're doing,
he says it's not going to work,
you got too much to live for.
He said see those guys over there,
a bunch of guys with dreadlocks and everything.
And he says, go talk to them, these are some good guys
and they can help you out of your situation
in more ways than one.
I say, yeah, yeah sure man.
i don't know what you're talking about but sure.
But I trusted it, I trusted that advice.
And so the next morning, i told them who I was
he already told them about me.
So I went and talked to em
and they said what's going on.
I told them about my case.
How much time I got, it's unfair, unjust.
And they introduced me to an Italian guy,
who's a law librarian.
He says he'll look at my transcript and
you know what I'm gonna help you out.
And that was the first sign of hope.
So I went back to my cell,
got the pills out of the bed post,
and gave them to the guys,
and they gave them to guys who like to get high.
(laughs)
Yeah.
You know.
And that was like okay no I have something to live for.
I have a mission now.
I can go through the courts and get out of this.
And what happened was, for the next five years,
I was fighting and fighting, trying to overturn my sentence,
overturn, so when I went to the Supreme Court of America,
and by the time they denied me,
I had six years in,
on a 10 year stinct.
Well I had started reading, meditating,
and reading astro projection books,
and hanging out with more conscious people.
Pretty soon, I said I'm here now.
I had settled in for the long haul, you know.
And that was the turning point in my life.
When that guard came into my cell.
If he hadn't come into my cell,
I don't know what would've happened.
I don't know, I had no idea.
I don't even want to think about the options.
So who were these fellas with the rasta
they were called Black Israelites.
That Black Israelites, okay
uh-huh
And umm, gosh I forgot the name of their leader.
They were very conscious men
and they gave me a book to read
from this author, their leader.
And in the book, he was speaking about
I'll never forget what he says,
I looked in the sky, and the geese were stopped.
They were not moving.
I go wait a minute now.
So I started contemplating that.
And the contemplation of that.
I wanted to figure out what he meant.
What did he mean by that.
cause I'm thinking with a literal mind.
Because geese or ducks, they don't stop in the air.
But his writing was so good,
I got to figure out what's he's talking about.
And that started me on this journey of spiritual search.
Now you said something in your talk.
Mmhmm.
I remember you were talking about
you and a friend or your brother sitting in a
Sunday school service with chaplan,
Right. Uh-hu Dana,
How old were you at that time?
I was 44.
You were 44?
Mmhmm.
So you're mind was starting to
you're mind had started opening in an
entirely different way.
Yeah.
Which led to that because you had
a really profound understanding
by that time,
yes.
So now you're meditating,
you're reading philosophers, religious books,
And what in that, embedded in that
started really getting to you on a deep level.
Well when I started reading, Muhaanda and Yogananda books
they were speaking about all these cities,
all these powers of gurus, and yogis'
Yes
I said, wow, you can actually walk through walls,
So you like the phenomenon
Yea the phenomenon of waking up.
I said that you can read peoples mind.
You can see through, you can travel to far countries
without leaving your bedroom?
I said oh man I want that, I'm like
Don't we all, right.
I'm like I want some more sweets, right.
(laughs)
And so its the nectar of truth, you know.
And it was, man it got me on fire.
To reading about, and Moopdenana said
you know he stressed the Guru,
waking you up shockdepot,
and so I wanted to meet a guru.
And so I'm having these stones desire
to meet a guru and of the 1988 or 89 when I had a dream,
of getting out of prison, I'm still doing 10-years,
I'm getting out of prison, I'm going to these
different houses and meeting different people,
And we're doing all types of crimes,
and I get violated, I come back to prison
and I meet this white-haired person
who's gonna set me free.
You know give me all these cities
and all these powers.
I'm saying I woke up out of the dream.
I wrote it down, I started following my dreams
but also, but I was happy
for meeting this person.
But I was pissed off because now I got to get out
after doing 10 years, go back to prison.
I said that was a nightmare really.
(laughs)
Yeah.
I woke up like ah man, wait a minute,
and I knew it was true.
I knew it beyond a doubt.
That it was true.
That's why I just went into
after a while I shut it off.
So by the time I got out,
I went in in 1982, and I got out in 1992.
And I went back to my hometown,
I started getting into crime again
Even after you still had been studying
Yeah, yeah. yeah. yeah
And seeing that this wasn't the way.
Was it in part, did you feel you had permission in part
because of that dream?
No, no it was what happens is this,
and a good question,
you can have all the affirmation,
all the mantras, meditate 18 hours a day,
wearing a white robe, a red robe, orange robe
whatever robe it is,
have the guru,
but if you have not woke up,
you're gonna repeat the same things.
So I hadn't had the awakening.
I just had a lot of concepts.
Right.
Of awakening.
But I hadn't actually experienced the awakening
So you did go back to prison?
I went back to prison and I violated,
and I got transferred to the federal prison
in Littleton Colorado, and that's where
I met my teacher, and that's where I had my awakening
and that is what
has been keeping me out ever since.
Tell us about what happened
Okay.
We were at a small group, our teacher Gangagi came in
well she wasn't my teacher at that time,
she was just a teacher.
And every week, what we would do,
we would go to these meetings
volunteers would come in such as I do now
and they would show us their teachings
their ideas, their philsophies,
and so they said Gungis coming in
have your best questions for her.
And so about a week away,
I'm writing down all these questions,
I'm thinking about all these here,
and I get to the chapel
I sit down, and she's going into meditation
and she comes out of meditation
and she looks over to me at her left.
And she says, Kenny I've been thinking about you
and as soon as she said that, I just blurted out
the question that I had.
I said, Ghangi,Ghangi,
I understand that we have to die
and go somewhere before we receive God's grace.
She says, Kenny, God's grace is here now.
I said Ahhh.
(laughs)-
And something in those words
really transmitted to you,
Yeah, that went around my ego, my mind,
it went around all these blocks I had up.
And went deep inside my soul and on that spot,
I was born again, I was a new person.
To simply hear the words, God's grace is here now
Hear that word of truth, Right God's grace is here now.
Because everything in truth is here now.
You remove time and space, there's only now.
And so she brought me to the moment,
and for the first time I could be in the moment.
And being in that moment
, I saw unlimited possibilities
for myself and then I got, after the service was over,
I walked out of the chapel, and I looked at
at this woman's eyes, her name was Susan Carabello.
Because she was a volunteer, I looked into her eyes
and I said, aaah, now she had been coming in
all these months, and she was awake but I couldn't see
because I had blindness, so i couldn't you know.
The blindness was my concept of who I was.
But once I met Gangagi, there were no more blinders.
And now I was seeing clearly, seeing other human beings.
So I looked into Susan's eyes I said,
Susan are you like this always, she said yes,
I said aaah oh my God, oh my God
(Regina laughs)
Wow, and I held her hand
I looked up into the sky, the night sky
that's all these beautiful twinkling lights
I said, wow look at those stars.
That's when I fell in love with nature.
All these years, i had never seen nature.
You know because how can I see nature
If I have not been seen.
So when Gungagi saw me
and she transmitted her vision,
through her eyesight,
then I was able to put on those glasses
and start seeing what she saw.
You weren't invisible anymore.
I was no longer invisible
I become visible, and my God.
I went home through prison home,
I went to my cell,
Which was home at the time, yeah.
I went to my cell, I laid on the bunk
and closed my eyes, and all night long,
I couldn't, I was between waking and sleeping.
And all I heard was this humming,
(humming)
All night long.
It was like a tape was erasing
my mind, it was like
you know how a tape goes (fuzzing sound)
It was erasing my mind.
I was watching my thoughts, but I couldn't grab them
like a rushing river, I couldn't get in and grab a thought.
And so I just watched these thoughts rushing by.
And hearing this sound, this humming sound
which is now as I understand it home of the primordial sound
and I woke up the next morning, and all I wanted to do
was be alone.
Be quiet, be still, so I started hanging out by myself.
And just being alone.
I would go to little dark places,
in my job site, i had a job working at the micro fish
researcher, and I had to shut the room
and make it dark, So I would pretend I would
be searching a park and I would sit there all day.
Until it's time to go to lunch.
They would knock on the door, Kenny Kenny c'mon lets go.
And I would go have lunch, come back to the micropix room
and just, that's how I spent the next six months or so.
In Federal prison sitting in that dark room.
Well know how bout your former colleagues?
Oh, all the guys I was hanging out with,
Yeah the ones that was really important to be
with and...
I was hanging out with a lot of guys
who were talking about what we
were gonna do when we get out.
I was going to go into the drug game now.
I was going to become a drug seller,
because I was hanging out with pimps and drug dealers,
Yeah.
And so one them, my best friend, Stuntman
he saw that I changed,
so he came over to me
and we were walking the yard, he walked over and says
Slim, let's go walk the yard,
talk about pimps and hos and everything,
and slamming Cadillac doors.
I says Stunt, I ain't really feeling that man.
I just want to sit here man and look at the mountain caps
cause we can in Colorado, so there was snow-capped mountains
all around.
I just want to look at the snow-capped mountains man
and watch the clouds in the sky.
That's it man.
He looked at me
I said I'd like you to meet the woman I met man,
She's brilliant, she's smart, she's just, she's great.
he looked at me, I love westerns, i love cops
And you were talking about Gogaju at this point
Yeah Gongaju
(Regina laughs)
And so, I love westerns, and so stunt got up
off the bench next to me, you know how in cowboy movies,
how the gunslinger backs out the door
says don't nobody move?
Yeah.
And so that's what he did to me,
he says Kenny, whatever that is you got,
I don't want none.
(both laugh)
Well but that's very telling.
Yes, yes, yes, he confirmed that I had shifted.
Yeah.
But he also didn't want to lose his game.
He didn't want to lose his game because
he knew if he listened to me, he'd have to give up
what's he's doing and he was too invested
in his mind, the in the story of who he was,
to let that story go.
But he recognized it on one level.
But it was too dark, it was too terrifying for him.
He couldn't do that. And so he and I
we never really hung out anymore.
And I heard you say earlier that
at that moment, when this happened for you
you knew you didn't want to be part of that anymore.
You were happy to look at nature.
That what had happened, that's transmission,
you were free,
yes
for the first time in your life you were free.
Yes, yes.
They could've let you out that day,
and you would've been no harm to society.
No hard to society at all, none.
And I haven't been.
So when you were finally released
a few years later,
what did you do with your life,
now that's all you've been doing since you were so young.
Right.
How did you construct your life from that point?
It's so funny, once Ghongagi spoke those words
of God's grace here and now,
I had one more hustle up my sleeve.
That's the name of my book, the Last Hustle.
i can't wait to read it, The Last Hustle.
You mean you had a literal hustle up your sleeve,
One more hustle
When you met with her
RIght.
I mean I said when I get out of here,
I'm gonna do this, that was my ace up my sleeve.
This might not work what she's talking about
but just in case I gotta hustle.
When she left, she took that hustle with her.
So I never forget that I said,
Well how am I gonna take care of myself out there.
Because all I knew to do was hustle.
And but something greater said don't worry about that.
You're gonna be okay.
And so I was relaxed in the knowledge that okay
I'm not gonna hustle.
I guess I'll figure it out.
I had no viable skills and I still don't have any
viable skills for like making a
foam padding for microphone cover,
or hammering nails, I don't have any of those
tangible type skills,
so when I got out,
I was getting temporary jobs for the longest.
Then I landed a job at the bed factory
and a plastic factory,
and the supervisors they fell in love with me.
Even though I couldn't meet my quota,
they kept bumping me up to better paying jobs.
And I said, I'm not making 150 beds a day.
I'm making maybe 40-50.
Yet she's pushing me up, you know.
And so what happened was, I realized that
this grace was taking care of me.
He was taking care of me.
Keeping me out here because
I was talking about this grace all the time.
On job sites I would talk about this grace.
I would stop working and go talk
to someone I saw that was depressed.
I would be always available to help people.
You know my daughter, my grand kids,
my girlfriend, i had girlfriends that were,
they say come over to the house, let's make love
and I get there, and she says,
how was prison for you and I start talking about
Gongaji and letting go, she says,
How can I let go, and I says
cut that tv off, she cut the tv off
I said now what,
What do you see?
She says, nothing.
I said rest that,
oh my God
, oh Kenny.
Well Kenny I'ma go lay down.
You can go home now.
I said wait a minute what about
I thought we were gonna you know
(both laugh)
Well you must have at least gotten
some satisfaction from the experience.
But I was so happy that she would lay down
Yeah.
And she would come and we'd have these
spiritual conversations.
She didn't know a think about Gongaji,
Mopananda, nothing.
But we was talking about truth.
They way it showed up in her life.
This grace, now of she's a Christian,
but how it showed up in her life.
And then I had another girlfriend
she called me she said, Slim i need to talk to you.
Come over to the house.
So I said no I don't feel like come over
cause I knew what she wanted, I didn't feel like it.
I was tired. And so
She says I need to talk to you about something.
That guy Kenny of mine he's got this woman
and he's driving down the highway, he's a truck driver.
he's doing this, he's doing that.
I said, what if Kenny never came back
and drove off into the sunset and disappeared.
How would that feel?
Slim, you a bad mother fucker.
(Regina laughs)
She got it, she says, I got to lay down
and hung the phone up.
You know the first time you're so happy
you want to relax,
Yeah.
And so, I said wow
and then she was so dysfunctional
when I had a conversation with her,
today she's a
card-carrying member of a Christian church,
she's doing community work,
and she is the mother of her clan,
of her family of brothers and sisters.
Because her father died and her mother died.
And she became the matriarch of the family.
She is doing so good now.
So you extended this back into the prisons,
Yes, yes. yes
And that's what you do to this day.
That's what I do right now,
I work at high schools, I work in prisons, anywhere
my accountant says your sacred space is everywhere.
You know, where you are, this is sacred space.
Yeah, yeah.
So I have a question,
Thinking back to the days in prison,
all the people you met,
how many, and I don't mean percentage wise,
but how often would it be true that that person there
who is there for similar reasons you were,
is waiting for some kind of awakening,
has this incredible potential and creativity within.
And is waiting for something like what you experienced.
is this a fertile field is what I'm saying.
It's a very fertile field, but there's so few workers.
Yeah
So few workers.
you know, there's a great harvest to be had
but there are so few workers to do the work
In prison, and so what I found when I was in prison
it was the ones who were at the low end of the totem pole
who were getting beat up, raped, abused,
not seen again, that were suffering the most.
And those are the ones who recognize me
and came to me for nourishment, for food, for shade,
for comfort, and to be seen.
And those are the ones I minister to.
And they were the baby rapers, they were the
guys who were being raped, they were the ones
who were coming to me, and I would walk the yard with them
talk to them, and so one day, one of them big tough guys
came up to me and said man what's going on,
what kind of hustle you putting down?
And I said what you talking about?
He says you got all these guys walking around with you,
What's going on man?
Don't be messing with those guys.
You're one of us, a regular you know.
I said, you should be doing what I'm doing.
They need to hear this truth.
I mean they're suffering, and look how you're treating them.
You're a man of god.
And so, even he was like, oh man.
I'm not really being a Christian.
A true Christian.
And so all the guys that start hanging out with them,
they start leaving 'em alone because they realized
I was not trying to extort anything from them,
i was just taking the hustles from them
and giving them the same gift that I was given
from Gongaji.
So what would you say to everybody
who hasn't had this experience that you've had.
Who hasn't been incarcerated, who hasn't been
down the road to make those decisions for all the reasons
that started such as in your life.
What would you say to the rest of the world,
as we view those who are behind bars
and those who, and I'm going to ask a second question
after this by the way,
what do we as society need to do to change our lens?
What do we need to understand?
To love the distance franchise.
To love those who you think you have no common bond with,
to drop your prejudices, your biases,
and see them as yourselves.
Really see them as human beings
who really are looking for this gift of love
that you have.
And pray for them, it was through the prayers of so many
people seen and unseen, that came to Gongaji's heart,
and caused her to create a non-profit organization
that affect prisoners, and her coming in to save me.
So pray for those, who are out there doing the crimes
pray for those who are being victimized, pray for the victim
and the victimized, they both are suffering.
That is the only way we really change this world
for the good, that is the only way.
That is the only way.
See them as yourself.
And then another way you also have said
you came to view your time in prison as your monastary
it's highly ordered and regimented,
you don't have outside responsibilities
just what you're told to do with lots of time.
And I was thinking of that as you were
speaking, you might have been behind bars
just as people who go to monastaries
are essentially in the exact same routine
if you choose certain religious orders,
it's the same way in which you live, you get up
they tell you what to do, you do your chores,
you go to bed, you contemplate,
Right.
But how many of the rest of us
are walking supposedly free,
are actually in the same kind of prison
of our own perceptions where we can't even
grant ourselves permission to have the time
to contemplate for example.
I mean in a sense, most human beings
are in their own prison, you don't need bars
to be in prison, no, you don't.
It's the
again there's so few laborers
out there than can touch people
to share this awakening with them.
Because you have to have the awakening experience
for you to be free.
What I love about the internet and tv
is that your able to meet a lot more people now.
Because of the medium.
And I would say,
Be here now.
God's grace is here now.
It always has been.
It always will be.
And if there was no time
or no space, then what's left
just this, just this
(laughs)
Thank you so much Kenny.
I just adored our time together,
you have one of the most loving
personas and energy fields
of anyone I've ever met.
So do you. (laughs)
Thank you dear, thank you
Well I can understand,
I can see what your transmissions can do.
By your showing up and sitting with people
who felt like you weren't stiff.
Yeah
(ethereal music)
And i'm very grateful you are out there
in the world doing this on behalf of all of us.
Thank you.
But we got to do more on our part too.
yes, yes
We do, thank you my dear.
Thank you
Kenny's non-profit organization
dedicated to working with other men
with prison sentences such as himself
can be found at this sacred space dot org.
his organization is on a shoestring budget
and could certainly use any help
if you're so inclined.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.